thus the heavens and the earth were
completed in all their vast array by the
seventh day God had finished the work he
had been doing so on the seventh day he
rested from all his work
then God blessed the seventh day and
made it holy because on it he rested
from all the work of creating that he
had done this is the account of the
heavens and the earth when they were
created when the Lord God made the earth
and the heavens now no shrub had yet
appeared on the earth and no plan had
yet sprung up for the Lord God had not
sent rain on the earth and there was no
one to work the ground but streams came
up from the earth and wanted the whole
surface of the ground then the Lord God
formed a man from the dust of the ground
and breathed into his nostrils the
breath of life and the man became a
living being now the Lord God had
planted a garden in the East in Eden and
there he put the man he had formed the
Lord God made all kinds of trees grow
out of the ground trees that were
pleasing to the eye and good for food in
the middle of the garden were the Tree
of Life and the tree of the knowledge of
good and evil e a river watering the
garden flowed from evening from there it
was separated into four headwaters the
name of the first is the P shine it
winds through the entire land of havilah
where there is gold the gold of that
land is good aromatic resin and onyx are
also there the name of the second river
is the gitane it winds through the
entire land of cush the name of the
Third river is the Tigris it runs along
the east side of a shin and the fourth
liver is the Euphrates the Lord God took
the man and put him in the Garden of
Eden to work it and take care of it
and the Lord God commanded the man you
are free to eat from any tree in the
garden but you must not eat from the
tree of the knowledge of good and evil
when you eat of it you will certainly
die the Lord God said who it is not good
for the man to be alone i will make a
helper suitable for him now the Lord God
have formed out of the ground all the
wild animals and all the birds in the
sky he brought them to the man to see
what he would name them and whatever the
man called each living creature that was
its name so the man gave names to all
the livestock the birds in the sky and
all the wild animals but for Adam no
suitable helper was found so the Lord
God caused the man to fall into a deep
sleep and while he was sleeping he took
one of the man's ribs and then closed up
the place with flesh then the Lord God
made a woman from the rib he had taken
out of the man and he brought her to the
man the man said this is now bone of my
bones and flesh of my flesh she shall be
called a woman she was taken out a man
for this reason a man will leave his
father and mother and be united to his
wife and they will become one flesh the
man and his wife were both naked and
they felt no shame